Add 2021 Community Update draft (#1569)
writethedocs/www: docs/blog/2021-community-update.rst

.. post:: Aug 13, 2020
   :tags: stats, newsletter
   :author: Eric Holscher

> Write the Docs Community Update

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Write the Docs Community Update - August 2021
```

Reviewer: I'd suggest to also rename the file to match

===============================

Hey there documentarians!

The newsletter team is taking August off this year,
but there's still plenty going on in the community.

> This update covers what else is going on behind the scenes while they take a much deserved break.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This update covers what else is going on behind the scenes while the newsletter team takes a much deserved break.
```

> We're looking forward to seeing everyone online for our `Prague <http://www.writethedocs.org/conf/prague/2021/>`_ on **October 3-5** in the CEST timezone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're looking forward to seeing everyone online for our virtual `Prague <http://www.writethedocs.org/conf/prague/2021/>`_ on **October 3-5** in the CEST timezone.
```

We're also getting excited about our upcoming virtual `Australia & India <http://www.writethedocs.org/conf/australia/2021/>`_ conference on **December 2-3** in the AEDT timezone.
The talks were just announced for the Prague conference, and the `Australia & India conference CFP <https://www.writethedocs.org/conf/australia/2021/cfp/>`_ **is still open if you have ideas to present.**

We also had our second virtual Portland conference in April this year.
It was another success with almost 700 people attending from all over the world.
The `videos <https://www.writethedocs.org/videos/portland/2021/>`_ from the conference are now available online.

Write the Docs Enhancement Proposals (WEPs)
-------------------------------------------

We have had a WEPs for a little while now,
but they haven't seen a ton of traction in the tumultuous last 18 months.
There are a couple of exciting updates to report though.

We have approved our `Slack Moderation WEP`_, which defines the process for moderating Slack much more explicitly.

> This establishes explicit process in order to grow our moderation team,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The more formalized process can help grow our moderation team,
```

> and reduce confusion about the process involved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and reduce confusion about the roles and responsibilities involved.
```

We strive to keep the community friendly and inviting,
and moderation is a necessary part of that work.

We have also just launched a new `organizational structure and governance WEP`_,
which will help to shape the structure of how Write the Docs operates.
This WEP will define all the various teams in the community,
as well as how decisions are made at the organizational level.
The proposal adds the concept of a Community Council,
which will be made up of the team leads of all the community teams.
The Community Council will make many decisions around the community,
allowing more people to share in the official leadership structure.

We hope that more people in our community will participate in the WEP process,
so please read through the proposal and give us feedback.

.. _Slack Moderation WEP: https://github.com/writethedocs/weps/blob/master/accepted/WEP0002.rst#wep2---slack-community-moderation-procedures
.. _organizational structure and governance WEP: https://github.com/writethedocs/weps/pull/5

> Write the Docs store

Reviewer: Do we want to explicityl say "swag store" or "merchandise" or something to indicate that this is just for swag?

Author: Seems reasonable. I don't have a strong feeling on the branding of it -- the current site says "Community Shop" so maybe lets use that? 

```suggestion
Write the Docs community shop
```

Reviewer 2: I like Community Shop more than swag. Merchandise could also work.

--------------------

We've heard from some of the folks in the community that they are missing all the swag we used to give away at our conferences.
We always had lots of little goodies to give folks across the years, including stickers, notebooks, shirts, hoodies, and other bigger items in some of our raffle giveaways.

> We're excited to be able to bring back a small version of that for those of you who want to wear your documentarian pride on the sleeves :)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're excited to be able to bring back a small version of that for those of you who want to wear your documentarian pride on your sleeves :)
```

The `Write the Docs Store`_ is now live with lots of good things. **We have stickers, mugs, phone cases, bags, prints, and notebooks** with these designs:

* `Docs or it didn't happen`_ swag in dark & light
* `Sketchnotes`_ from all the talks at our Portland 2021 conference
* `Community logos`_ which provide a simple way to show your WTD pride

We have tried to find a vendor which has reasonable shipping costs so that we can keep the costs down for our community, but it can still add up.
We recommend trying to do a group purchase with a meetup or company so that you can reduce the costs involved, and get a few different options of the various items.

> If you also want a bulk order of stickers or something like that for a meetup, we can also direct ship them to you for free if you email us at support@writethedocs.org.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you also want a bulk order of stickers or similar swag for a meetup, we can also directly ship them to you for free if you email us at support@writethedocs.org.
```

Author: Can we easily support bulk orders of other swag? I guess we could do notebooks via Scout, but I was thinking about stickers because they are _way_ cheaper for us with stickermule.

.. _Write the Docs Store: https://writethedocs.threadless.com/
.. _Docs or it didn't happen: https://writethedocs.threadless.com/collections/docs-or-it-didnt-happen
.. _Sketchnotes: https://writethedocs.threadless.com/collections/wtd-portland-2021-sketchnotes
.. _Community logos: https://writethedocs.threadless.com/collections/community-logos

Job Board & Newsletter sponsorship pricing updates
--------------------------------------------------

We have been seeing great success with our `job board`_ and `newsletter sponsorships`_.
The job listings have been getting a bit overwhelming,

> so we're using that as an oppertunity to raise prices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so we've decided to try and mitigate that by increasing the prices.
```

Reviewer: "using that as an opportunity" sounds a bit... opportunistic ;)

> Starting in August:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Starting in August:
```

> * The newsletter sponsorship is now $350

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The newsletter sponsorship price is $350
```

> * A featured job posting is now $250

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A featured job posting price is $250
```

> * A normal job posting is now $100

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A regular job posting price is $100
```

.. _newsletter sponsorships: https://www.writethedocs.org/sponsorship/newsletter/
.. _additional sponsorship options: https://www.writethedocs.org/sponsorship/

Salary Survey
-------------

The annual salary survey, run by the Write the Docs community, aims to gather data about salaries for people working in documentation and related fields around the world. `Results of the second survey <https://www.writethedocs.org/surveys/salary-survey/2020/>`__ are available on our website.

We hope that this data can help our community members determine what appropriate salary ranges are, and provide a benchmark for future employment-related decisions and negotiations.
Additionally, we’re hoping the results spark discussion of employment-related trends and issues in our industry, including but not limited to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic.

We're hoping to launch a 2021 survey here soon,
but haven't put the finishing touches on it quite yet.
Watch the newsletter for that in the coming months.

Featured jobs
-------------

*To apply for these job, or post your own, visit the* `Write the Docs job board <https://jobs.writethedocs.org/>`_.

Thanks
------

> Thanks again for subscribing to our newsletter and being a member of our community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks again for subscribing to our newsletter and for being a member of our community.
```

* `Community logos`_ which provide a simple way to show your WTD pride

We have tried to find a vendor which has reasonable shipping costs so that we can keep the costs down for our community, but it can still add up.
We recommend trying to do a group purchase with a meetup or company so that you can reduce the costs involved, and get a few different options of the various items.
If you also want a bulk order of stickers or similar swag for a meetup, we can also directly ship them to you for free if you email us at support@writethedocs.org.

.. _Write the Docs Store: https://writethedocs.threadless.com/
.. _Docs or it didn't happen: https://writethedocs.threadless.com/collections/docs-or-it-didnt-happen
.. _Sketchnotes: https://writethedocs.threadless.com/collections/wtd-portland-2021-sketchnotes
.. _Community logos: https://writethedocs.threadless.com/collections/community-logos

Job Board & Newsletter sponsorship pricing updates
--------------------------------------------------

We have been seeing great success with our `job board`_ and `newsletter sponsorships`_.
The job listings have been getting a bit overwhelming,

> so we've decided to try and mitigate that by increasing the prices.

Reviewer 2: This sounds a bit negative, I'm thinking something like:

```
We're glad to see that these are so popular and have
decided to bring the pricing closer to the value they provide.
```

We're raising them because things are good - not because something bad is happening that we need to fix. Or at least, that's what I think it should look like.

Author: 💯
